ap
and he likes
the first proposed situation was a
diagnostic situation in which the teacher
Mara asked the children to solve
some operations a restructuring
edition of multiplication mine of
division and also edited numbers
teacher mara sent this production
of the students and I was looking for two
axes and did a quantitative analysis
and a qualitative analysis of production
of the students the quantitative was a
excel sheet and I was putting
right and who erred the saying of numbers
or operations in the qualitative analysis to
People can see the nature of mistakes.
what kind of mistake does the child make if
for example, it understands the meaning of
numbers or what each digit represents
the proposal I made was not in a
first moment was not to calculate
it was to think about a calculus look
as some children calculated then
the teacher of these children proposed 55 -
17 and paula solved this way valéria
solved this another way
So how is it, paula solved it?
she's a fashion champion
stayed 10
it is easier to make 55 minus 10 than if
56 will have 17
is very common in the operations of these
children to treat organisms in a way that
separate this type of error is an error that
has to do with the way she went
taught to calculate
he thinks it is not military 500 if thirst
the company becomes easier then
how it seemed to me that they were very
far from the procedures that were
presenting I proposed that they themselves
make a calculation at the time I
I ask them to calculate all will have
that enter in some way into the
put the procedure into play
analyzed at the time of the
resolution of talc had some children
that for example they were so
conditioned to work with the rhythm
that they tried to solve
by the conventional algorithm
Wrong mistake in calculation and confuse
a number right but not
they related one thing to the other
so in this case the inter ven if I
I'm one thousand two hundred forty-seven
paid 608 is it possible for me to stay
with 1441 reais
not many of these children use a
algorithm but they do not know how to use it
with disabilities then they commit
some mistakes so I was helping to
these children to find the self of the
algorithm at the same time as I was going to
proposing this other way of calculating
which was a procedure based on the
decomposition of numbers into a
mental calculation procedure as it is
which is decomposed 28
I was equal to 14 plus 14
Are you in any other way?
just as this group still needs
learn to justify mathematically in
end of the class I tried to draw up a
single conclusion a tip that help the
children to check results then
possible outcome was the result of a
subtraction can never be greater than
the starting number at that time is
interesting to look at as the terms of
subtraction makes sense
I even tired
they had already learned the terms of
subtraction but they never used
because they are not accustomed to talking
mathematically help them explain and
formulate more mathematically with
mathematical arguments is an intervention
important of the teacher draws attention to
people pick up a 4th grade class and
still need to discuss whether he drew the
multiplication division addition
however if we receive a class
of students who still have questions
relative to natural numbers
we need to take a step back and
listen to these children look what
do they know what knowledge they
they need to be able to follow in this
autonomous path of thinking
mathematician, then it's no use taking the
curricular contents of numbers
and propose to this group that
still have many doubts about the
multiplication with integers
so the ideal is to observe the
what resources they have and what they
how they advanced then it is no use
nothing to pass content where all the
my students learn the knowledge
which will be fundamental to
they advance in this path that I
do math